docs: publish v8 roadmap (#1330)
faker-js/faker: docs/about/announcements/2022-09-08.md

---
editLink: false
---

# New Roadmap Published

We haven't made any announcements for a long time, but we are happy to announce that we just published the new roadmap for v8.

Our main focus for v8 is to make Faker more leightweight and flexible.
A huge part of that is better treeshaking support.

Currently if you just want to generate some reproducible numbers, then you need the entire Faker package.
First you have to download almost 10MB of data (CJS+ESM) and ship half of that (one of the two).

We won't tackle the download size for now, but we hope to reduce your shipped code size significantly.

> This should also improve js startup/parse times.

Reviewer: I would prefer if we go a bit more into details
We know that doubling the CJS/ESM code is not the real problem, but that the locales are also splitted and shipped twice
So at least we could write something like that we know the issue but don't prio it that much right now to focus on other task or something like that, even if we already have an experiment running but don't know which sideeffects it can cause

Author: Like this?

---
editLink: false
---

# New Roadmap Published

We haven't made any announcements for a long time, but we are happy to announce that we just published the new roadmap for v8.

Our main focus for v8 is to make Faker more lightweight and flexible.

> A huge part of that is better treeshaking support.

Reviewer: In <search engine> I can find tree shaking or tree-shaking, but not treeshaking :thinking:

Currently, if you just want to generate some reproducible numbers, then you need the entire Faker package.

> First, you have to download almost 10MB of data (mostly locales duplicated; for ESM and CJS) and ship half of that (one of them).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you have to download almost 10MB of data (mostly locales duplicated; for ESM and CJS) and ship only half of them.
```

(?)

Author: Not sure if this sounds like we are dropping the duplicate locales data vs removing some locales/locale data from the source.

> First, you have to download almost 10MB of data (mostly locales duplicated; for ESM and CJS) and ship half of that (one of them).

Author: ```suggestion
First, you have to download almost 10MB of data (mostly locales; duplicated for ESM and CJS) and ship half of that (one of them).
```

> We won't tackle the download size for now,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We wont tackle the download size for now,
```
